There are signs that the U.S. economy is stumbling, and that low inflation is more stubborn than the fed previously thought, both of which argue for lower rates. Inflation should fall by no less than 5 points, partly because of the cooling of the economy as by restrictions on access to foreign currency," said economist Gabriel Monzón. Working relentlessly to bring prices under control, Volcker raised the Fed's benchmark interest rate from 11% to a record 20% by late 1980 to try to slow the economy's growth and thereby shrink inflation. 0.5 per cent in February 2020 (year-on-year), while food inflation stood at 1.0 per cent, mainly due to reported price declines for fresh vegetables and fruits. Economists expect the broad deflationary trend to give way to higher inflation at least next year partly because of extraordinary measures by the federal reserve to cushion the economy’s fall, including programs to help keep companies afloat. Although economic activity is slowing down, rising oil prices may put pressure on inflation, something that would force the federal reserve to raise rates sooner than expected. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) governor Amando Tetangco said he did not foresee the inflation target being breached over the policy horizon despite strong GDP growth. What is notable, although nothing strange here, is that inflation and above all the inflation in 2020 would have passed 30% despite a collapse of the economy calculated at 11% and despite, also, the freezing of gas and electricity tariffs: 0.6% in the year, reports the chapter of the index that represents them. The moves were an attempt to boost economic activity and, in turn, lift still-sluggish inflation towards the bank's justbelow-two-percent goal. The prospect of additional stimulus and ongoing vaccinations has raised concerns that as Americans eventually release pent-up demand for airline tickets, hotel rooms, new clothes and other goods and services, the economy might accelerate, and inflation could surge above 2%. Typically, if we are headed toward the end of an economic expansion, resources become scarce in an overheated economy leading to surging inflation so that the fed has to swoop in to cool things off by raising rates and pulling liquidity out of the financial system. Data on Tuesday showed U.S. consumer prices rose marginally in May as gasoline price increases slowed and the underlying trend continued to suggest moderate inflation in the economy.